# Project about Villarreal Football Club
Today, football like many other sports, is dominated by money. The commonly shared idea is that only the well-funded teams with deep-pocketed owners can dominate the peaks of the game. Villarreal Club de Futból continue to challenge that narrative, showing that there is another way to scale the heights of football’s Himalayas. They are giant slayers- through their own unique footballing culture and philosophy this modest club has against all the odds stamped their mark on the highest levels of world football. 

Football is the most popular sport in the world. International tournaments (especially the World Cup and Champions League) attract audiences of billions over the course of the competition. The leading league teams in the world are all based in Europe where the national league seasons (especially in England and Spain) attract audiences in the hundreds of millions. Football has become a big business- television and merchandising rights are sold globally and attract revenues in the billions of dollars annually. Elite football players earn multi-million dollar salaries and are global celebrities akin to Hollywood stars- some are closer to gods. Owners have invested and continue to invest staggering amounts of capital to either catapult their sides to the pinnacle or maintain their dominance there. Unlike in American sports there are no salary caps in European football meaning spending has become unbridled. There is no denying that money buys success; money ensures dominance. The top echelons of the European national leagues are owned by oil and gas rich Middle Eastern states, Russian Oligarchs (until recently), international billionaires, and the hedge fund and private equity masters of the universe. Those who do not have the backing of billions struggle to compete: they cannot buy top players in the transfer market, they cannot offer the same eye-watering salaries, they cannot build big state of the art stadiums and they cannot launch major international media campaigns. They are often either relegated from the big leagues or forever resigned to stare at the peaks reached by their well-funded competitors, knowing they will never scale such heights. Yet, one team has. They have scaled the heights. They have time and time again vied against their madly wealthy opponents and succeeded. They have done it on a shoe-string budget, crafty managerial manoeuvres and fierce team spirit. They are Villarreal Club de Futból, they are giant killers

Most of the leading football teams in Europe are based in their nation’s capital or major industrial hubs: London, Madrid, Munich, Barcelona, Manchester etc. Villarreal is a strange anomaly. Villarreal (Vila-real) is a town of just over 50,000 people, 68 kilometres north of Valencia, Spain. The entire population would fit into Bayern Munich’s Allianz stadium with 25,000 seats to spare. It is a town that has no business contending with the cream of Spanish football, let alone the greats of Europe. And yet, for 20 years that is exactly what this small-town team has done. This is European football’s version of Billy Beane’s Oakland A’s, Moneyball with a Spanish twist; overachieving with limited financial resources but a wealth of spirit, brains, and gall. 

I have conducted an exploratory data analysis into Villarreal, from their 1995-1996 season in Segunda to last year's unlikely Champions League semi-final. In focusing particularly on the number of "homegrown players" over time I am able to display how crucial such an approach has been to this club's rise and consequent success. Through visualising and displaying the data, and the relationships between different variables I hope to show just how remarkable what this small-town club has achieved is. 
